All right, let's talk about probably
my practically favorite part here,
is the fact that I don't
have to write media queries.
[LAUGH] Cuz there are a few things.
I have been doing this for a very,
very, very, very long time now.
And I will never remember syntax for
putting a CSS style sheet
into an HTML document.
I'll just note, I've been doing this
since I was 10, and I will still never.
Gonna be 40 next year and
yet, still can't remember it.
And a few of these other things and
media queries also fall in there as well.
And so the way this works is all
the classes that we're using,
that have, I had none of
these media query variants on
it effectively take first
at our smallest size.
And then after that it's kinda take
that mobile first development,
which when I am smart, I do.
And when I am stupid I forget to,
and then I regret it, and
then the next time I'm smart again for
three more times.
And eventually I get lazy and
stupid again.
But you start with the kind of basic
one and then you can say, coo.
And then as soon as we go
above 640 anything with
the small variant takes place.
And then when we go above 768,
and all of these are tweakable as well.
And we're gonna do some of that just to
show you cuz I keep saying, [INAUDIBLE].
And we sort of sorted some
of them the theme, but
we'll actually see how this works.
Cuz we use 640, I don't know the width of
an iPhone these days or an Android phone.
I still think it's, I mean I can literally
open the Chrome developer tools and
find out about five seconds,
which we will do.
But for a lot of these things I think that
we, I know that we support I think 375 is
the smallest that we do when we're doing
our designs and stuff along the design.
So we added in an extra small as well,
and I will do that kinda with y'all so
you can kinda see how some of this works.
And then that will get us ready for
some of the more fancy layout stuff
in Tailwind, once we have that
kinda piece in there, too.
So,.
let's go grab just something.
And just to kinda
demonstrate how this works.
I am gonna start with one
of those container divs,
we talked about before, container.
And that's the one that will expand
to whatever the last viewport was,
in this case.
So div class container.
Nope, that's not how you type.
Great, and I will say,
I'm gonna do something else
with this in a second, but
we'll give it a little
bit of extra height.
In this case, we'll do height, 36,
the other thing is these
are fractional heights.
So if you wanna do something
that's a 25% is just 1/4,
3/6 is, you can guess it,
it's the same as 1/2.
So on and so forth.
But you can actually do percentage
one just in the class as well.
You're not stuck with just
these REM units either.
Cool, and so what we're gonna do is,
Who has a favorite color?
>> Teal.
>> Teal, what shade of teal would
you say is your favorite color?
>> 100.
>> 100, okay, great.
And then what's your favourite colour?
>> Black.
>> Black, okay.
You're gonna get shades of black so,
>> Great.
>> I don't know how many shades
of grey there are in this.
Let's see if or.
>> Orange.
>> Orange Favorite shade?
>> 500
>> 500, good choice.
LG, and we got a favorite color?
>> Red
>> Red, you can't pick one by the way,
if anyone has a favorite colors
on here you can't do that.
Mine's green, I'm gonna just yell another
favorite color at this point, I'm not.
Anyone watching the livestream
is done waiting for
me to announce every single color.
We'll start with this because I think on
this MacBook I think there's a I could go
to 2XL, but I don't think this screen with
the way that I have to set up here will
ever get to those.
So I think we can call it at this point.
Great, and so I can do one or
two things here.
I can, for instance,
go into this responsive mode and
that's all the way down there get more.
No, not coming up?
Okay, fine.
We will do it with no code then.
There we go, there we go.
And as you can see, as it goes through the
breakpoints, the different variants apply.
And you can see that this, especially
when you get an auto, will kinda stay.
At the last viewpoint it hit until it
literally switches to the next column,
that's how that container works as well.
And so you can have different layouts
very easily based on the width.
And you can do this throughout your
application, you can say, okay,
I wanna flex column.
If we're at the smallest viewport and
as soon as we go to medium just md colon,
right?
Go to like a flex row wrap,
or what have you?
You can change all this stuff very
easily and very quickly on the fly.
You can do other silly stuff, right?
You could do something like, we can
grab all these as well, And we'll say,
We're gonna say something like,
After content is tiny,
that's just the one that doesn't exist.
Go through as well,
just pop a bunch of these on.
Cool, and so
we'll say this is small, Medium,
large, extra large, cool.
And so now we can kind of,
we see it's tiny.
Let's go and make this bigger.
And it will also change,
this is tiny every time.
Did I not save it?
Or did I mess something up, check it.
I didn't put the after
on the rest of these.
Right, so this is, again, you can stack
the variance do whatever you need to do.
Cool.
Yep, now it's changing.
So let's say we wanted to add that 375,
right,?
As a breakpoint as well,
we can do that super easily in our theme.
So, we can literally go in here and
we can say screens.
And we'll say extra small is 375.
Awesome, thats gotta, String, great.
Now we can go back here and
also add in, Extra small and
we're gonna go with, And
just add in breakpoints for
whatever we need as we go through.
[INAUDIBLE] Tiny, I want to see my
tiny mistake if not I'll look at it
during break break, cuz it's not
the most important thing in the world.
Cuz I don't know anything about that, but
if you look it did resolve correctly,
right?
So I wonder if it's a me issue or
if it's a playground issue because
it has definitely figured it out,
you know what it is?
>> Unit?
>> Yeah, I was like why does it
want a string instead of a number?
Cuz it wants, because you look at it,
you can see 375 pixels, 640 pixels, yeah.
That hovering, it's good.
So you can see, it did turn purple.
I didn't add the other,
I'm changing it there, but
it did turn purple in this case.
So we can add if you wanna, we also have
a 3XL because I work with engineers.
And they, I learned something about my co
workers, which is apparently they maximize
their browser window on their 5k
monitors and their ultra wide monitors.
Which is a horrifying
thing that I can't unsee.
But I know that the biggest, and this has
multiple tech companies I've worked at
when they talk about responsive design,
they're talking about ultra wide monitors.
Which is never a way I've
heard of it referred to in it.
Are these people all maximizing their
browser window on these ultra wide
monitors, is that happening?
Cuz the amount of times it's come up
is at multiple companies is somewhat
shocking to me
>> There is a change including more than
just background color.
Do you use the empty colon for
all of the classes that need to be
changed or can you combine them?
>> We looked this up during a break
where we found a blog post.
Went up, I still have it open,
I don't think I do.
Where we wanted to find out is
there a shorthand for this?
Presently there is not,
you do stack them up.
Now this is where you could choose to
bring those utilities or those components.
I haven't for the most part, right?
But you could, you could, that's where
you could pull them together in either
a utility class or a component class,
and begin to pull those things in.
I, again, at the end of the day,
constantly every part of me that
is an engineer writing JavaScript
is like I should have abstractions.
And then every part of me that has to flip
back and forth between two files to figure
out why something's styled the way it is,
hates that part of me.
Right, the part of me that is
good JavaScript developer,
then makes me hate me writing CSS, right?
And this of having it all
right there in front of me.
And tweaking turns out, cuz every
part of me wants to abstract it away,
everyone asking that question, I feel you.
I am there with you all,
I am spiritually there too.
I just know that every time I do it,
I end up sad, right?
But I want it as well, but
then I don't like it when I have it.